# Welcome

## Welcome to the BanyanDB

**BanyanDB**, as an observability database, aims to ingest, analyze and store Metrics, Tracing, and Logging data. It's designed to handle observability data generated by **Apache SkyWalking**. Before BanyanDB emerges, the Databases that SkyWalking adopted are not ideal for the APM data model, especially for saving tracing and logging data. Consequently, There’s room to improve the performance and resource usage based on the nature of SkyWalking data patterns.

Here you can learn all you need to know about BanyanDB. Let's get started with it.

### Introduction

Learn the concepts of Banyand. Includes the architecture, data model, and so on.

- [Data Model](./concept/data-model.md)
- [BanyanDB Clustering](./concept/clustering.md)
- [TimeSeries Database(TSDB)](./concept/tsdb.md)

### Installation

Instruments about how to download and onboard BanyanDB server, Banyand.

#### Supported Platforms

- Unix/Linux
- MacOS
- Windows + [WSL2](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install): work like Linux.

#### Installation Tutorials

- [Installing BanyanDB Using Generic Binaries](./installation/binaries.md)
- Installing BanyanDB Using Release Packages
  - [Standalone Mode](./installation/standalone.md): a simplest way to run BanyanDB.
  - [Cluster Mode](./installation/cluster.md): a robust and scalable architecture.

### BanyanDB Clients

Some native clients to access Banyand.

- [Command Line Client](./clients.md#command-line)
- [HTTP Client](./clients.md#http-client)
- [Java Client](./clients.md#java-client)
- [Web Application](./clients.md#web-application)
- [gRPC command-line tool](./clients.md#grpc-command-line-tool)

### CRUD Operations

To create, read, update, and delete data points or entities on resources in the schema.

- Group
  - [CRUD Group](./crud/group.md)
- Measures
  - [CRUD Measures](./crud/measure/schema.md)
  - [Query Measures](./crud/measure/query.md)
- Stream
  - [CRUD Streams](./crud/stream/schema.md)
  - [Query Streams](./crud/stream/query.md)
- IndexRules
  - [CRUD IndexRules](./crud/index_rule.md)
- IndexRuleBindings
  - [CRUD IndexRuleBindings](./crud/index_rule_binding.md)
- Property
  - [CRUD Property](./crud/property.md)

### Observability

Learn how to effectively monitor, diagnose and optimize Banyand.

- [Metrics](./observability.md#metrics): BanyanDB has built-in support for metrics collection through the use of build tags.
- [Profiling](./observability.md#profiling): Banyand, the server of BanyanDB, supports profiling automatically.
- [Tracing](./observability.md#tracing)

### Useful Links

You might also find these links interesting:

- The latest and old releases are all available
  at [Apache SkyWalking release page](https://skywalking.apache.org/downloads/). The change logs can be
  found [here](https://github.com/apache/skywalking/tree/master/changes).

- [SkyWalking WIKI](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/SKYWALKING/Home) hosts the context of some changes and
  events.

- You can find the conference schedules, video recordings, and articles about SkyWalking in
  the [community resource catalog](https://github.com/OpenSkywalking/Community).

### Contact Us

We're always looking for help to improve our documentation and codes, so please don’t hesitate
to [file an issue](https://github.com/apache/skywalking/issues/new) if you see any problems. Or better yet, directly
contribute by submitting a pull request to help us get better!
